source/_references/35-usermetadata.md, before:

---
title: User Metadata
use: [references]
---

## Intro

Image metadata is metadata added to a source image by the API user that does not change the image
identifying hash. You can later also search for them, see the [filtering for particular images chapter](./searching-images.html#filtering-for-particular-images).

## Image metadata types

Image metadata can be a string, integer, double, date, latitude/longitude or an array and also be
changed after an image was uploaded.

The default type is _String_, if you want to store it as any other type, you have to specify it with
a prefix.
Refer to the following table for a prefix/type documentation:

| Type     | Prefix  |
-----------|----------
| String   | str:    |
| Int      | int:    |
| Double   | double: |
| Date     | date:   |
| Location | latlon: |
| Array    | array:  |

Some limitations apply to each type, in particular:
 - the _Date_ type accepts values with the following format:`YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ`;
 - the _Location_ type needs to be set as a `latitude, longitude` pair, eg: "47.38,8.52".
 - the elements of an _Array_ type will always be stored as string, you can't specify a type there.

## Add image metadata to a source image

Image metadata field names have a maximum length of 54 characters, and can be composed only of the following
characters:

 - `a-z` (lower-case letters);
 - `0-9` (numbers);
 - `_` (underscore).

The most flexible way to add/replace/delete fields is with a PATCH request and having the field data
JSON-encoded in the body.
This also allows to update more than one field at once.

```language-bash
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PATCH 'https://api.rokka.io/sourceimages/myorganization/0dcabb778d58d07ccd48b5ff291de05ba4374fb9/meta/user' -d '{
    "some_field": "some value",
    "str:some_string_field": "some value again",
    "int:some_umber": 0,
    "date:some_date": "2017-01-29T12:34:56Z",
    "array:some_array": ["Foo","Bar","Baz"],
    "delete_this": null
    }'
```

If you do a PUT instead of a PATCH request, then all existing fields will be deleted first.

If you want to update/add just one value, you can also do this by making a PUT request to
`https://api.rokka.io/sourceimages/{organization}/{hash}/meta/user/{name}` and include the 
JSON encoded value in the body:

```language-bash
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT 'https://api.rokka.io/sourceimages/myorganization/0dcabb778d58d07ccd48b5ff291de05ba4374fb9/meta/user/somefield' -d '"somevalue"'
```

You can also directly provide metadata when you first upload an image. See [Source images](source-images.html) for details.

## Delete metadata from a source image

Besides just setting a value of a field to null as shown above, you can also delete user
metadata using a DELETE API call.

For a single field:

```language-bash
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X DELETE 'https://api.rokka.io/sourceimages/myorganization/0dcabb778d58d07ccd48b5ff291de05ba4374fb9/meta/user/somefield'
```

Deleting all image metadata of an image:

```language-bash
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X DELETE 'https://api.rokka.io/sourceimages/myorganization/0dcabb778d58d07ccd48b5ff291de05ba4374fb9/meta/user'
```

Commit message:

Add operator and text fields

source/_references/35-usermetadata.md, after:

---
title: User Metadata
use: [references]
---

## Intro

Image metadata is metadata added to a source image by the API user that does not change the image
identifying hash. You can later also search for them, see the [filtering for particular images chapter](./searching-images.html#filtering-for-particular-images).

## Image metadata types

Image metadata can be a string, integer, double, date, latitude/longitude or an array and also be
changed after an image was uploaded.

The default type is _String_, if you want to store it as any other type, you have to specify it with
a prefix.
Refer to the following table for a prefix/type documentation:

| Type               | Prefix  |
---------------------|----------
| String             | str:    |
| Text               | text:   |
| Int                | int:    |
| Double             | double: |
| Date               | date:   |
| Location           | latlon: |
| Array with strings | array:  |
| Array with text    | array_text:  |


The difference between _String_ and _Text_ is that _String_ fields are not tokenized and decompounded, it's stored
as a literal string, you can only search the whole string or from the beginning with prefix searches.
_Text_ fields on the other hand are tokenized, decompounded and stemmed, so that you can search for all the words in that field.

Some limitations apply to each type, in particular:
 
 - the _Date_ type accepts values with the following format:`YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ`;
 - the _Location_ type needs to be set as a `latitude, longitude` pair, eg: "47.38,8.52".
 - the elements of an _Array_ type will always be stored as string, you can't specify a type there.

## Add image metadata to a source image

Image metadata field names have a maximum length of 54 characters, and can be composed only of the following
characters:

 - `a-z` (lower-case letters);
 - `0-9` (numbers);
 - `_` (underscore).

The most flexible way to add/replace/delete fields is with a PATCH request and having the field data
JSON-encoded in the body.
This also allows to update more than one field at once.

```language-bash
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PATCH 'https://api.rokka.io/sourceimages/myorganization/0dcabb778d58d07ccd48b5ff291de05ba4374fb9/meta/user' -d '{
    "some_field": "some value",
    "str:some_string_field": "some value again",
    "int:some_umber": 0,
    "date:some_date": "2017-01-29T12:34:56Z",
    "array:some_array": ["Foo","Bar","Baz"],
    "delete_this": null
    }'
```

If you do a PUT instead of a PATCH request, then all existing fields will be deleted first.

If you want to update/add just one value, you can also do this by making a PUT request to
`https://api.rokka.io/sourceimages/{organization}/{hash}/meta/user/{name}` and include the 
JSON encoded value in the body:

```language-bash
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT 'https://api.rokka.io/sourceimages/myorganization/0dcabb778d58d07ccd48b5ff291de05ba4374fb9/meta/user/somefield' -d '"somevalue"'
```

You can also directly provide metadata when you first upload an image. See [Source images](source-images.html) for details.

## Delete metadata from a source image

Besides just setting a value of a field to null as shown above, you can also delete user
metadata using a DELETE API call.

For a single field:

```language-bash
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X DELETE 'https://api.rokka.io/sourceimages/myorganization/0dcabb778d58d07ccd48b5ff291de05ba4374fb9/meta/user/somefield'
```

Deleting all image metadata of an image:

```language-bash
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X DELETE 'https://api.rokka.io/sourceimages/myorganization/0dcabb778d58d07ccd48b5ff291de05ba4374fb9/meta/user'
```
